---
lang: en-GB
title: Importance
description: >-
  pls can dim and hide unimportant files such as external libs and autogenerated
  code, which can then be selectively shown.
---

# Importance

Not all files and folders in a directory are equally important. This is
especially true for modern software development, where the root folder of a
project is filled with scaffolding and configuration files for toolchains.

`pls` uses an importance scale that it makes it easy to find your proverbial
needle in the haystack. The importance of files decides whether files are
shown and controls their visual prominence.

## Preferences

**CLI flags:** `--all`/`-a`  
**Config YAML:** `all`

This is a [counter field](../reference/prefs.md#counters). It can take any
integer value.

In the CLI, this flag can be passed several times, reducing the threshold by one
each time it is passed. Alternatively, it can be passed with an argument to
directly set the threshold.

In the YAML config, you can set the value directly to an integer.

- Default: sets the importance threshold to zero, so files with importance -1
  are dimmed and those with importance -2 or lower are invisible.

  ```shellsession
  $ pls
  ```

  ```yml
  prefs:
    all: 0
  ```

- Custom: to see files with importance -2 as dimmed and importance -1 as regular
  files, lower the threshold by 1.

  ```shellsession
  $ pls -a
  $ pls -a 1
  ```

  ```yml
  prefs:
    all: 1
  ```

  Similarly, to see files with importance -3 as dimmed and importance -1 and -2 as
  regular files, lower the threshold by 2.

  ```shellsession
  $ pls -a -a
  $ pls -a 2
  ```

  ```yml
  prefs:
    all: 2
  ```

## Configuration

Out of the box, `pls` configures an importance of -1 for the autogenerated code
such as lockfiles for package managers.

- Python

  - `poetry.lock`
  - `Pipfile.lock`
  - `env/`
  - `venv/`

- JavaScript

  - `package-lock.json`
  - `yarn.lock`
  - `pnpm-lock.yaml`
  - `node_modules/`

- Ruby
  - `Gemfile.lock`
  - `vendor`
  - `bundle`

Some especially useless files are bestowed the importance of -2.

- `.DS_Store`

- Python
  - `__pycache__`

## Customisation

To configure file importance, you can do either of the following.

- Extend the configuration locally using a local `.pls.yml` file.  
  For the majority of use cases, this is the preferred option. Using `pls`'s
  powerful extensibility, you can define the importance of the files and folders
  inside your projects (among other things).

- Make a pull-request to `pls`.  
  This only applies if the file type is fairly common and the inclusion of the
  config adds value for a lot of developers. The `pls` OOBE is intentionally
  minimal.

Importance levels are set via node specs. Refer to the
[docs for defining node specs](../reference/node_specs).

## Reference

The importance of files is classified into 5 levels.

| Level | Significance       | Appearance        |
| ----- | ------------------ | ----------------- |
| -2    | Least important    | Hidden by default |
| -1    | Lower importance   | Dimmed            |
| 0     | Neutral importance | Normal            |
| +1    | Higher importance  | Bold              |
| +2    | Most important     | Underline         |

If any spec sets the importance of a file, it takes precedence over the default.
The default importance of a file is determined on the basis of two factors:

- whether the file has any spec associated with it
- whether the file name starts with a leading dot `.`

| Has spec | Leading `.` | Default importance |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------ |
| No       | No          | 0                  |
| Yes      | No          | 0                  |
| No       | Yes         | -2                 |
| Yes      | Yes         | -1                 |

Files without a leading dot have a default importance of 0. Files with a leading
dot have importance -1 if they have a matching spec or -2 if they don't.
