docs/src/content/docs/features/collapse.mdx, before:

---
title: Collapse
description:
  pls can reduce clutter in your file listing by collapsing derivative nodes
  into their principal nodes.
---

import { Content as CollapseOn } from "@/examples/collapse/on.mdx";
import { Content as CollapseOff } from "@/examples/collapse/off.mdx";
import { Content as CollapseConf } from "@/examples/collapse/conf.mdx";
import { Content as CollapseConfd } from "@/examples/collapse/confd.mdx";

In software development it is a common occurrence to have files that are
generated from other files.

- Lockfiles are generated from package manifests.
- Source maps are generated from source code.
- Classes are generated by compilers parsing the source code.
- Code files are generated by transpilers converting code in another language.

<Pls /> has the novel ability for you to define the collapsing rules for these
derived files so that they are both listed together with their source, and also
depicted in a way that emphasises their dependency relationship.

<Pls /> can also nest collapsed nodes into other collapsed nodes, forming a full
tree of collapses.

## Arguments

`--collapse`/`-c` can be used to turn collapsing on or off. <Pls /> enables this
collapsing behaviour by default.

### Examples

```console
$ pls # or --collapse=true or -c=true
```

<CollapseOn />

```console
$ pls --collapse=false # or -c=false
```

<CollapseOff />

## Configuration

Using the configuration system, you can both change the appearance of the tree
and also define additional rules for collapsing in addition to the built-in
ones.

### Examples

Here is an example showing nested collapses. It uses simple ASCII characters to
render colorful collapse trees.

<CollapseConf />

<CollapseConfd />

Commit message:

Document grid view incompatibility with collapsing

docs/src/content/docs/features/collapse.mdx, after:

---
title: Collapse
description:
  pls can reduce clutter in your file listing by collapsing derivative nodes
  into their principal nodes.
---

import { Content as CollapseOn } from "@/examples/collapse/on.mdx";
import { Content as CollapseOff } from "@/examples/collapse/off.mdx";
import { Content as CollapseConf } from "@/examples/collapse/conf.mdx";
import { Content as CollapseConfd } from "@/examples/collapse/confd.mdx";

In software development it is a common occurrence to have files that are
generated from other files.

- Lockfiles are generated from package manifests.
- Source maps are generated from source code.
- Classes are generated by compilers parsing the source code.
- Code files are generated by transpilers converting code in another language.

<Pls /> has the novel ability for you to define the collapsing rules for these
derived files so that they are both listed together with their source, and also
depicted in a way that emphasises their dependency relationship.

<Pls /> can also nest collapsed nodes into other collapsed nodes, forming a full
tree of collapses.

## Arguments

`--collapse`/`-c` can be used to turn collapsing on or off. <Pls /> enables this
collapsing behaviour by default.

:::caution

Note that collapsing (which leads to nodes that expand to multiple lines) is
incompatible with the [grid view](/pls/features/grid_view/). In case of
conflict, the grid view will be used and collapsing will be turned off.

Otherwise, you may disable the grid view using `--grid=false`/`-g=false`.

:::

### Examples

```console
$ pls # or --collapse=true or -c=true
```

<CollapseOn />

```console
$ pls --collapse=false # or -c=false
```

<CollapseOff />

## Configuration

Using the configuration system, you can both change the appearance of the tree
and also define additional rules for collapsing in addition to the built-in
ones.

### Examples

Here is an example showing nested collapses. It uses simple ASCII characters to
render colorful collapse trees.

<CollapseConf />

<CollapseConfd />
