docs/src/content/docs/features/grid_view.mdx, before:

---
title: Grid view
pls:
  pls can display node names in two dimensions by showing multiple nodes per row
  reducing vertical space when the grid view has been activated.
---

import { Content as GridViewOff } from "@/examples/grid_view/off.mdx";
import { Content as GridViewOn } from "@/examples/grid_view/on.mdx";

<Pls /> can reduce the amount of vertical space taken by the output, thus
reducing the amount of strolling required, by placing the node names in a grid
instead of a column.

## Arguments

`--grid`/`-g` can be used to turn the grid mode on or off. Grid mode is turned
off by default because it reduces the amount of info shown per file.

The direction of the grid can be changed with the
[`--down`/`-D` flag](/pls/features/direction/).

:::caution

Note that the grid view is incompatible with the
[detail view](/pls/features/detail_view/). In case of conflict, the detail view
will be used and the grid view will be turned off.

Otherwise, you may disable the detail view using `--det=none`/`-d=none`.

:::

:::caution

Note that the grid view is also incompatible with
[symlink tracing](/pls/features/symlink/) (which can take large amounts of
horizontal space). In case of conflict, the grid view will be used and symlink
tracing will be turned off.

:::

### Examples

```console
$ pls # or --grid=false or -g=false
```

<GridViewOff />

```console
$ pls --grid=true # or -g=true
```

<GridViewOn />

Commit message:

Document grid view incompatibility with collapsing

docs/src/content/docs/features/grid_view.mdx, after:

---
title: Grid view
pls:
  pls can display node names in two dimensions by showing multiple nodes per row
  reducing vertical space when the grid view has been activated.
---

import { Content as GridViewOff } from "@/examples/grid_view/off.mdx";
import { Content as GridViewOn } from "@/examples/grid_view/on.mdx";

<Pls /> can reduce the amount of vertical space taken by the output, thus
reducing the amount of strolling required, by placing the node names in a grid
instead of a column.

## Arguments

`--grid`/`-g` can be used to turn the grid mode on or off. Grid mode is turned
off by default because it reduces the amount of info shown per file.

The direction of the grid can be changed with the
[`--down`/`-D` flag](/pls/features/direction/).

:::caution

Note that the grid view is incompatible with the
[detail view](/pls/features/detail_view/). In case of conflict, the detail view
will be used and the grid view will be turned off.

Otherwise, you may disable the detail view using `--det=none`/`-d=none`.

:::

:::caution

Note that the grid view is also incompatible with
[symlink tracing](/pls/features/symlink/) (which can take large amounts of
horizontal space). In case of conflict, the grid view will be used and symlink
tracing will be turned off.

:::

:::caution

Note that the grid view is also imcompatible with
[collapsing](/pls/features/collapse/) (which leads to nodes that expand to
multiple lines). In case of conflict, the grid view will be used and collapsing
will be turned off.

:::

### Examples

```console
$ pls # or --grid=false or -g=false
```

<GridViewOff />

```console
$ pls --grid=true # or -g=true
```

<GridViewOn />
