docs/src/content/docs/features/importance.mdx, before:

---
title: Importance
description:
  pls uses an importance-based system to emphasize, de-emphasize or hide nodes
  instead of naïvely checking if the node name has a leading dot.
---

import { Content as ImportanceM2 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_m2.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceM1 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_m1.mdx";
import { Content as Importance0 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_0.mdx";
import { Content as Importance1 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_1.mdx";
import { Content as Importance2 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_2.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceDis } from "@/examples/importance/dis.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceConf } from "@/examples/importance/conf.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceConfd } from "@/examples/importance/confd.mdx";

<Pls /> uses an importance system to both hide certain unimportant nodes as well
as emphasize certain important ones.

Each node has a default importance of -1 if it starts with a leading dot, and 0
otherwise. This importance can be overridden using [specs](/guides/specs/).

An importance scale maps importance levels to styling attributes. Any files with
importance below the scale are hidden.

## Arguments

`--imp`/`-I` can be used to set the baseline importance level. This affects the
relative importance of all nodes. The default is 0. Setting a higher number will
reduce the importance level of nodes and hide more of them.

At `--imp=-2`, a node with importance -2 behaves as it has an importance of 0, a
node with importance -1 behaves as it has an importance of 1, and so on.

:::caution

Filtering by importance is not applicable when listing a specific node.

:::

### Examples

```console
$ pls --imp=-2 # or -I=-2
```

<ImportanceM2 />

```console
$ pls --imp=-1 # or -I=-1
```

<ImportanceM1 />

```console
$ pls # or --imp=0 or -I=0
```

<Importance0 />

```console
$ pls --imp=1 # or -I=1
```

<Importance1 />

```console
$ pls --imp=2 # or -I=2
```

<Importance2 />

```console
$ pls --imp=2 file # `--imp` has no effect
```

<ImportanceDis />

## Configuration

Using the configuration system, you can extend the importance scale to higher or
lower levels and change the default styles applicable at each level.

<ImportanceConf />

<ImportanceConfd />

Commit message:

Use `bash` instead of `console` to get the terminal frame

docs/src/content/docs/features/importance.mdx, after:

---
title: Importance
description:
  pls uses an importance-based system to emphasize, de-emphasize or hide nodes
  instead of naïvely checking if the node name has a leading dot.
---

import { Content as ImportanceM2 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_m2.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceM1 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_m1.mdx";
import { Content as Importance0 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_0.mdx";
import { Content as Importance1 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_1.mdx";
import { Content as Importance2 } from "@/examples/importance/imp_2.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceDis } from "@/examples/importance/dis.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceConf } from "@/examples/importance/conf.mdx";
import { Content as ImportanceConfd } from "@/examples/importance/confd.mdx";

<Pls /> uses an importance system to both hide certain unimportant nodes as well
as emphasize certain important ones.

Each node has a default importance of -1 if it starts with a leading dot, and 0
otherwise. This importance can be overridden using [specs](/guides/specs/).

An importance scale maps importance levels to styling attributes. Any files with
importance below the scale are hidden.

## Arguments

`--imp`/`-I` can be used to set the baseline importance level. This affects the
relative importance of all nodes. The default is 0. Setting a higher number will
reduce the importance level of nodes and hide more of them.

At `--imp=-2`, a node with importance -2 behaves as it has an importance of 0, a
node with importance -1 behaves as it has an importance of 1, and so on.

:::caution

Filtering by importance is not applicable when listing a specific node.

:::

### Examples

```bash
pls --imp=-2 # or -I=-2
```

<ImportanceM2 />

```bash
pls --imp=-1 # or -I=-1
```

<ImportanceM1 />

```bash
pls # or --imp=0 or -I=0
```

<Importance0 />

```bash
pls --imp=1 # or -I=1
```

<Importance1 />

```bash
pls --imp=2 # or -I=2
```

<Importance2 />

```bash
pls --imp=2 file # `--imp` has no effect
```

<ImportanceDis />

## Configuration

Using the configuration system, you can extend the importance scale to higher or
lower levels and change the default styles applicable at each level.

<ImportanceConf />

<ImportanceConfd />
