docs/src/content/docs/reference/conf.mdx, before:

---
title: Configuration
description: Configuration
---

<Pls /> supports a powerful, and complex, configuration system that offers a lot
of powerful customization options. Configuration is specified in the form of a
`.pls.yml` YAML file (which means you can just use JSON if you hate YAML so
much).

This is the schema of the file.

## Schema

<DocBlock title="icons" type="map<str, str>">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### icons
  </Fragment>

mapping of icon names to actual glyphs from Nerd Fonts

You can also use emojis as the glyphs but it's not recommended as you can run
into issues regarding character width in some terminals.

  <div slot="examples">
    ```yaml
    icons:
      python: "" # nf-seti-python
      javascript: "󰌞" # nf-md-language_javascript
      applescript: "🍎"
    ```
  </div>
</DocBlock>

---

<DocBlock title="specs" type="seq<Spec>" subfieldsType="Spec">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### specs
  </Fragment>

list of node specs, in ascending order of specificity

  <div slot="subfields">
    <DocBlock title="pattern" type="str(Regex)" required>
      a regex pattern to match against the node's name; In YAML this can be
      specified more clearly if the quotes are omitted.
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="icon" type="str">
      the name of the icon to use for the node; It should be a key from the
      built-in icons or from the `icons` section.
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="style" type="str">
      styles to apply to the node name and icon
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="importance" type="int">
      the importance level of the node
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="collapse" type="Collapse">
      the rule for determining the parent node, if any, for this node

      <div slot="subfields">
        `Collapse` is an enum type so exactly one of `name` or `ext` should be
        specified.

        <DocBlock title="name" type="str">
          the exact name of the parent file; Name-based collapsing matches this
          node with another having the exact given name.
        </DocBlock>

        <DocBlock title="ext" type="str">
          the extension of the parent file; Extension-based collapsing matches
          this node with another having the same base name and the given
          extension.
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        collapse:
          name: package.json # matches exactly `package.json`
        ```

        ```yaml
        collapse:
          ext: ts # matches file with same base name and `.ts` extension
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

  </div>

  <div slot="examples">
    ```yaml
    specs:
      - pattern: ^(pnpm-lock.yaml|package-lock.json)$
        icon: lock
        importance: -1
        collapse:
          name: package.json
      - pattern: \.(c|m)?js$
        icon: javascript
        style: rgb(247,223,30)
        collapse:
          ext: ts
    ```
  </div>
</DocBlock>

---

<DocBlock title="entry_const" type="EntryConst">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### entry_const
  </Fragment>

constants that determine the appearance and styling of each entry

  <div slot="subfields">
    <DocBlock title="dev_style" type="str">
      style for the device number
    </DocBlock>
    <DocBlock title="ino_style" type="str">
      style for the inode number
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="nlink_styles" type="NlinkStyles">
      styles for the number of hard links

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="file_sing" type="str">
          style to use when file has one hard link
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="file_plur" type="str">
          style to use when file has more than one hard link
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="dir_sing" type="str">
          style to use when directory has one hard link
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="dir_plur" type="str">
          style to use when directory has more than one hard link
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        nlink_styles:
          file_sing: ""
          file_plur: yellow
          dir_sing: yellow
          dir_plur: ""
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="typ" type="map<str(Typ), TypInfo>" subfieldsType="TypInfo">
      mapping of node type to node type info (including style)

      The key for the map i.e. `Typ` can be any of the following strings:
      `'dir'`, `'symlink'`, `'fifo'`, `'socket'`, `'block_device'`,
      `'char_device'`, `'file'` or `'unknown'`.

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="ch" type="str">
          the character for a node type, used in the 'T' column
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="suffix" type="str">
          the suffix for a node type, placed after the node name
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="icon" fqTitle="typ__icon" type="str">
          the fallback icon for the node type, used if no other icon is found;
          Not all node types need to have an icon.
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="style" fqTitle="typ__style" type="str">
          the style to use for nodes of a particular node type; This applies to
          name, `ch`, `suffix` and `icon` as well.
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        typ:
          dir:
            ch: <bold cyan>d</>
            suffix: <dimmed>/</>
            icon: dir
            style: blue
          symlink:
            ch: <magenta>l</>
            suffix: <dimmed>@</>
            icon: symlink
          char_device:
            ch: <blue bg:green>b</>
          block_device:
            ch: <blue bg:yellow>c</>
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="perm_styles" type="map<str(Sym), str>">
      mapping of symbolic permission bits to style

      The key for the map i.e. `Sym` can be any of the following strings:
      `'none'`, `'read'`, `'write'`, `'execute'`, or `'special'`.

      <div slot="examples">
        **Example:**

        ```yaml
        perm_styles:
          none: dimmed
          read: yellow
          write: red
          execute: green
          special: magenta
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="oct_styles" type="map<str(Oct), str>">
      mapping of octal permission bits to style

      The key for the map i.e. `Oct` can be any of the following strings:
      `'special'`, `'user'`, `'group'` or `'other'`.

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        oct_styles:
          special: magenta
          user: blue
          group: blue dimmed
          other: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="user_styles" type="OwnerStyles">
      styles for the owner user

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="curr" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by the current user/group
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="other" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by a different user/group
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        user_styles:
          curr: blue bold
          other: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="group_styles" type="OwnerStyles">
      styles for the owner group

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="curr" fqTitle="group_styles__curr" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by the current user/group
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="other" fqTitle="group_style__other" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by a different user/group
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        group_styles:
          curr: blue
          other: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="size_styles" type="SizeStyles">
      style for magnitude and unit (prefix and base) of node size

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="mag" type="str">
          the style for the node size magnitude
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="prefix" type="str">
          the style for the node size unit prefix
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="base" type="str">
          the style for the node size base unit
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        size_styles:
          mag: bold
          prefix: italic
          base: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="blocks_style" type="str">
      style for the number of blocks occupied by the file
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="timestamp_formats" type="map<str(DetailField), str>">
      mapping of timestamp fields to the human-readable format

      The key for the map i.e. `DetailField` can be any of the following
      strings: `'btime'`, `'ctime'`, `'mtime'` or `'atime'`.

      The format string should contain [format description components](https://time-rs.github.io/book/api/format-description.html#components) from the `time` crate.

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        timestamp_formats:
          btime: <bold green>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
          ctime: <bold yellow>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
          mtime: <bold yellow>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
          atime: <bold blue>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="symlink" type="map<str(SymState), SymlinkInfo>" subfieldsType="SymlinkInfo">
      mapping of symlink state to more symlink state info (including style)

      The key for the map i.e. `SymState` can be any of the following strings:
      `'ok'`, `'broken'`, `'cyclic'` or `'error'`.

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="sep" type="str">
          the separator to show between the node and its target
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="style" fqTitle="symlink__style" type="str">
          the style to use for symlinks in a particular symlink state; This
          applies to both the name and the separator.
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="ref_style" type="str">
          the style to use for the symlink reference; This applies to the
          reference only.
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        symlink:
          ok:
            sep: 󰁔
            style: magenta
          broken:
            sep: 󱞣
            style: red
            ref_style: strikethrough
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

  </div>

  <div slot="examples">
    ```yaml
    entry_const:
      dev_style: magenta
      ino_style: magenta
      blocks_style: cyan
    ```
  </div>
</DocBlock>

---

<DocBlock title="app_const" type="AppConst">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### app_const
  </Fragment>

constants that determine the appearance and styling of the entire UI

  <div slot="subfields">
    <DocBlock title="table" type="TableInfo">
      configuration for the table view

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="column_names" type="map<str(DetailField), str>">
          mapping of detail field to column name

          The key for the map i.e. `DetailField` can be any of the following:
          strings: `'dev'`, `'ino'`, `'nlink'`, `'typ'`, `'perm'`, `'oct'`,
          `'user'`, `'uid'`, `'group'`, `'gid'`, `'size'`, `'blocks'`,
          `'btime'`, `'ctime'`, `'mtime'`, `'atime'`, `'git'` or `'name'`.

          <div slot="examples">
            ```yaml
            column_names:
              btime: <green>Date Created</>
              ctime: <yellow>Date Changed</>
              mtime: <yellow>Date Modified</>
              atime: <blue>Date Accessed</>
            ```
          </div>
        </DocBlock>

        <DocBlock title="header_style" type="str">
          styles to apply to the text in the header row
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        table:
          header_style: clear underline
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="tree" type="TreeInfo">
      shapes to use to print trees

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="pipe_space" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "│  "
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="space_space" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "   "
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="tee_dash" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "├─ "
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="bend_dash" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "└─ "
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        tree:
          pipe_space: "║  "
          space_space: "   "
          tee_dash: "╠═ "
          bend_dash: "╚═ "
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="imp_styles" type="seq<(int, string)>" subfieldsType="(int, str)">
      pairings of importance levels with styling directives

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="0" type="int">
          the importance level
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="1" type="str">
          the style to use for nodes of a particular importance level
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        imp_styles:
          - [-1, "dimmed"]
          - [1, "italic"]
          - [2, "underline"]
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

  </div>
</DocBlock>

## Examples

You can see the `.pls.yml` files from <Pls />'s source code itself to get a feel
for how these configurations work. Feel free to copy them or use as inspiration
for your own projects.

- [`.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/.pls.yml)
- [`docs/.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/docs/.pls.yml)
- [`examples/.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/examples/.pls.yml)
- [`src/.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/src/.pls.yml)

Commit message:

Document the feature for custom config file placement

docs/src/content/docs/reference/conf.mdx, after:

---
title: Configuration
description: Configuration
---

<Pls /> supports a powerful, and complex, configuration system that offers a lot
of powerful customization options. Configuration is specified in the form of a
`.pls.yml` YAML file (which means you can just use JSON if you hate YAML so
much).

## Placement

<Pls /> uses a cascading system for multiple config files. You can have config
files at the directory level, at the repository level and at the global level.

The global config file can be placed in the home directory at `~/.pls.yml`. If
you prefer a clean home directory, you can set the `PLS_CONFIG` environment
variable to a point to a config file placed elsewhere on your computer, in which
case <Pls /> will not look for one in the home directory.

## Schema

This is the schema of the file.

<DocBlock title="icons" type="map<str, str>">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### icons
  </Fragment>

mapping of icon names to actual glyphs from Nerd Fonts

You can also use emojis as the glyphs but it's not recommended as you can run
into issues regarding character width in some terminals.

  <div slot="examples">
    ```yaml
    icons:
      python: "" # nf-seti-python
      javascript: "󰌞" # nf-md-language_javascript
      applescript: "🍎"
    ```
  </div>
</DocBlock>

---

<DocBlock title="specs" type="seq<Spec>" subfieldsType="Spec">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### specs
  </Fragment>

list of node specs, in ascending order of specificity

  <div slot="subfields">
    <DocBlock title="pattern" type="str(Regex)" required>
      a regex pattern to match against the node's name; In YAML this can be
      specified more clearly if the quotes are omitted.
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="icon" type="str">
      the name of the icon to use for the node; It should be a key from the
      built-in icons or from the `icons` section.
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="style" type="str">
      styles to apply to the node name and icon
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="importance" type="int">
      the importance level of the node
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="collapse" type="Collapse">
      the rule for determining the parent node, if any, for this node

      <div slot="subfields">
        `Collapse` is an enum type so exactly one of `name` or `ext` should be
        specified.

        <DocBlock title="name" type="str">
          the exact name of the parent file; Name-based collapsing matches this
          node with another having the exact given name.
        </DocBlock>

        <DocBlock title="ext" type="str">
          the extension of the parent file; Extension-based collapsing matches
          this node with another having the same base name and the given
          extension.
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        collapse:
          name: package.json # matches exactly `package.json`
        ```

        ```yaml
        collapse:
          ext: ts # matches file with same base name and `.ts` extension
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

  </div>

  <div slot="examples">
    ```yaml
    specs:
      - pattern: ^(pnpm-lock.yaml|package-lock.json)$
        icon: lock
        importance: -1
        collapse:
          name: package.json
      - pattern: \.(c|m)?js$
        icon: javascript
        style: rgb(247,223,30)
        collapse:
          ext: ts
    ```
  </div>
</DocBlock>

---

<DocBlock title="entry_const" type="EntryConst">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### entry_const
  </Fragment>

constants that determine the appearance and styling of each entry

  <div slot="subfields">
    <DocBlock title="dev_style" type="str">
      style for the device number
    </DocBlock>
    <DocBlock title="ino_style" type="str">
      style for the inode number
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="nlink_styles" type="NlinkStyles">
      styles for the number of hard links

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="file_sing" type="str">
          style to use when file has one hard link
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="file_plur" type="str">
          style to use when file has more than one hard link
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="dir_sing" type="str">
          style to use when directory has one hard link
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="dir_plur" type="str">
          style to use when directory has more than one hard link
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        nlink_styles:
          file_sing: ""
          file_plur: yellow
          dir_sing: yellow
          dir_plur: ""
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="typ" type="map<str(Typ), TypInfo>" subfieldsType="TypInfo">
      mapping of node type to node type info (including style)

      The key for the map i.e. `Typ` can be any of the following strings:
      `'dir'`, `'symlink'`, `'fifo'`, `'socket'`, `'block_device'`,
      `'char_device'`, `'file'` or `'unknown'`.

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="ch" type="str">
          the character for a node type, used in the 'T' column
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="suffix" type="str">
          the suffix for a node type, placed after the node name
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="icon" fqTitle="typ__icon" type="str">
          the fallback icon for the node type, used if no other icon is found;
          Not all node types need to have an icon.
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="style" fqTitle="typ__style" type="str">
          the style to use for nodes of a particular node type; This applies to
          name, `ch`, `suffix` and `icon` as well.
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        typ:
          dir:
            ch: <bold cyan>d</>
            suffix: <dimmed>/</>
            icon: dir
            style: blue
          symlink:
            ch: <magenta>l</>
            suffix: <dimmed>@</>
            icon: symlink
          char_device:
            ch: <blue bg:green>b</>
          block_device:
            ch: <blue bg:yellow>c</>
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="perm_styles" type="map<str(Sym), str>">
      mapping of symbolic permission bits to style

      The key for the map i.e. `Sym` can be any of the following strings:
      `'none'`, `'read'`, `'write'`, `'execute'`, or `'special'`.

      <div slot="examples">
        **Example:**

        ```yaml
        perm_styles:
          none: dimmed
          read: yellow
          write: red
          execute: green
          special: magenta
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="oct_styles" type="map<str(Oct), str>">
      mapping of octal permission bits to style

      The key for the map i.e. `Oct` can be any of the following strings:
      `'special'`, `'user'`, `'group'` or `'other'`.

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        oct_styles:
          special: magenta
          user: blue
          group: blue dimmed
          other: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="user_styles" type="OwnerStyles">
      styles for the owner user

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="curr" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by the current user/group
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="other" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by a different user/group
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        user_styles:
          curr: blue bold
          other: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="group_styles" type="OwnerStyles">
      styles for the owner group

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="curr" fqTitle="group_styles__curr" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by the current user/group
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="other" fqTitle="group_style__other" type="str">
          style for when the node is owned by a different user/group
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        group_styles:
          curr: blue
          other: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="size_styles" type="SizeStyles">
      style for magnitude and unit (prefix and base) of node size

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="mag" type="str">
          the style for the node size magnitude
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="prefix" type="str">
          the style for the node size unit prefix
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="base" type="str">
          the style for the node size base unit
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        size_styles:
          mag: bold
          prefix: italic
          base: dimmed
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="blocks_style" type="str">
      style for the number of blocks occupied by the file
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="timestamp_formats" type="map<str(DetailField), str>">
      mapping of timestamp fields to the human-readable format

      The key for the map i.e. `DetailField` can be any of the following
      strings: `'btime'`, `'ctime'`, `'mtime'` or `'atime'`.

      The format string should contain [format description components](https://time-rs.github.io/book/api/format-description.html#components) from the `time` crate.

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        timestamp_formats:
          btime: <bold green>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
          ctime: <bold yellow>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
          mtime: <bold yellow>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
          atime: <bold blue>[day] [month repr:short]</> [hour repr:24]:[minute]
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="symlink" type="map<str(SymState), SymlinkInfo>" subfieldsType="SymlinkInfo">
      mapping of symlink state to more symlink state info (including style)

      The key for the map i.e. `SymState` can be any of the following strings:
      `'ok'`, `'broken'`, `'cyclic'` or `'error'`.

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="sep" type="str">
          the separator to show between the node and its target
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="style" fqTitle="symlink__style" type="str">
          the style to use for symlinks in a particular symlink state; This
          applies to both the name and the separator.
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="ref_style" type="str">
          the style to use for the symlink reference; This applies to the
          reference only.
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        symlink:
          ok:
            sep: 󰁔
            style: magenta
          broken:
            sep: 󱞣
            style: red
            ref_style: strikethrough
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

  </div>

  <div slot="examples">
    ```yaml
    entry_const:
      dev_style: magenta
      ino_style: magenta
      blocks_style: cyan
    ```
  </div>
</DocBlock>

---

<DocBlock title="app_const" type="AppConst">
  <Fragment slot="heading">
    ### app_const
  </Fragment>

constants that determine the appearance and styling of the entire UI

  <div slot="subfields">
    <DocBlock title="table" type="TableInfo">
      configuration for the table view

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="column_names" type="map<str(DetailField), str>">
          mapping of detail field to column name

          The key for the map i.e. `DetailField` can be any of the following:
          strings: `'dev'`, `'ino'`, `'nlink'`, `'typ'`, `'perm'`, `'oct'`,
          `'user'`, `'uid'`, `'group'`, `'gid'`, `'size'`, `'blocks'`,
          `'btime'`, `'ctime'`, `'mtime'`, `'atime'`, `'git'` or `'name'`.

          <div slot="examples">
            ```yaml
            column_names:
              btime: <green>Date Created</>
              ctime: <yellow>Date Changed</>
              mtime: <yellow>Date Modified</>
              atime: <blue>Date Accessed</>
            ```
          </div>
        </DocBlock>

        <DocBlock title="header_style" type="str">
          styles to apply to the text in the header row
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        table:
          header_style: clear underline
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="tree" type="TreeInfo">
      shapes to use to print trees

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="pipe_space" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "│  "
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="space_space" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "   "
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="tee_dash" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "├─ "
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="bend_dash" type="str">
          the shape to use an alternative to "└─ "
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        tree:
          pipe_space: "║  "
          space_space: "   "
          tee_dash: "╠═ "
          bend_dash: "╚═ "
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

    <DocBlock title="imp_styles" type="seq<(int, string)>" subfieldsType="(int, str)">
      pairings of importance levels with styling directives

      <div slot="subfields">
        <DocBlock title="0" type="int">
          the importance level
        </DocBlock>
        <DocBlock title="1" type="str">
          the style to use for nodes of a particular importance level
        </DocBlock>
      </div>

      <div slot="examples">
        ```yaml
        imp_styles:
          - [-1, "dimmed"]
          - [1, "italic"]
          - [2, "underline"]
        ```
      </div>
    </DocBlock>

  </div>
</DocBlock>

## Examples

You can see the `.pls.yml` files from <Pls />'s source code itself to get a feel
for how these configurations work. Feel free to copy them or use as inspiration
for your own projects.

- [`.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/.pls.yml)
- [`docs/.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/docs/.pls.yml)
- [`examples/.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/examples/.pls.yml)
- [`src/.pls.yml`](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls/blob/main/src/.pls.yml)
