docs/src/content/docs/guides/get_started.mdx, before:

---
title: Get started
description:
  Installing and using pls is easy and straightforward. pls can be installed via
  most package managers, downloaded as a binary, or built from source.
---

Thanks for giving <Pls /> a try. We hope you like using it as much as we do.

## Prerequisites

- **macOS or Linux:** Windows is [currently not supported](/pls/about/faq/).
- **Terminal:** [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/) and VSCode's have good Nerd Font
  support.
- **[Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com/):** Needed to render icons in the
  terminal.

:::tip

Nerd Fonts are good for more than just <Pls />. A number of CLI tools, like
[Starship](https://starship.rs/) and
[Powerlevel10k](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k), recommend using Nerd
Fonts.

When picking a Nerd Font, we recommend you opt for one that has programming
ligatures, such as JetBrains Mono (used in the examples on this site).

:::

## Installation

We are working on adding <Pls /> to package managers like `apt`, `dnf` and
`brew`, but in the meantime, there is no way to install this package from any
package manager. These are your approaches.

### Build from source

If you have the Rust toolchain installed on your computer, you can build from
source locally for your operating system and architecture. Also, we welcome your
[contributions](/pls/guides/contribute/)!

### Download binary

The CI + CD job compiles binaries for each supported OS on every code push.
Additionally, we also cut periodic releases from the `main` branch of the
repository. You can download the binary for your operating system and
architecture by following these steps.

1. Download the binary file. You can either download the binary associated with
   a release or a commit.

   - **Release**

     1. Go to the GitHub [Releases](https://github.com/dhruvkb/pls/releases)
        page for <Pls />.
     2. Find the latest release i.e. v<Version />.
     3. Expand the "Assets" attached to the release.

   - **Commit**

     1. Visit the page for <Pls />'s
        [CI + CD workflow](https://github.com/dhruvkb/pls/actions/workflows/ci.yml).
     2. Click on the last successful workflow.
     3. Scroll down to the "Artifacts" section.

2. Download the binary as per your operating system.

   - `pls-x86_64-apple-darwin` for macOS
   - `pls-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl` for Linux

3. Unzip the archive and find the single `pls` executable.

4. Place the executable on your `$PATH`. To do this, you can either add the
   directory that contains it to the path, or move/symlink the binary to a
   directory that is already on your `$PATH`.

## Verification

You can check if <Pls /> was installed correctly and present on your `$PATH` by
running the following command. If you see a version number, you're good to go!

```console
$ pls --version # or -V
```

<pre className="terminal">
  pls <Version />
</pre>

## Usage

To run <Pls />, type the following command into any terminal.

```console
$ pls
```

By default, <Pls /> lists the contents of the current working directory, but you
can pass a different file or directory as a positional argument.

If a directory path is passed, all the files and directories within that
directory are listed. This is useful to see what's in the folder. If a file path
is passed, only the file itself is listed. On its own, that's not very useful
except to see if that file exists. But with the
[`--det`/`-d` flag](/pls/features/detail_view/), <Pls /> can display quite a lot
of metadata for the file.

## Help

To see what <Pls /> is capable of, and how to use those features, check out the
built-in help. You can see the detailed help or a quick reference using the
`--help`/`-h` flags respectively.

```console
$ pls --help # or -h
```

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}
<pre className="terminal">
<b><span style='color:var(--red,#a00)'>`pls`</span></b> is a prettier and powerful `ls` for the pros.
&nbsp;
<b><u>Usage:</u></b> <b>pls</b> [OPTIONS] [PATHS]...
...
</pre>
{/* prettier-ignore-end */}

Commit message:

Add instructions on using `cargo install`

docs/src/content/docs/guides/get_started.mdx, after:

---
title: Get started
description:
  Installing and using pls is easy and straightforward. pls can be installed via
  most package managers, downloaded as a binary, or built from source.
---

Thanks for giving <Pls /> a try. We hope you like using it as much as we do.

## Prerequisites

- **macOS or Linux:** Windows is [currently not supported](/pls/about/faq/).
- **Terminal:** [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/) and VSCode's have good Nerd Font
  support.
- **[Nerd Fonts](https://www.nerdfonts.com/):** Needed to render icons in the
  terminal.

:::tip

Nerd Fonts are good for more than just <Pls />. A number of CLI tools, like
[Starship](https://starship.rs/) and
[Powerlevel10k](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k), recommend using Nerd
Fonts.

When picking a Nerd Font, we recommend you opt for one that has programming
ligatures, such as JetBrains Mono (used in the examples on this site).

:::

## Installation

We are working on adding <Pls /> to package managers like `apt`, `dnf` and
`brew`, but in the meantime, there is no way to install this package from any
package manager. These are your approaches.

### Build from source

If you have the Rust toolchain installed on your computer, you can build from
source locally for your operating system and architecture. Also, we welcome your
[contributions](/pls/guides/contribute/)!

```console
$ cargo install --git https://github.com/dhruvkb/pls
```

You can use `--tag` to install a specific version, The current latest version is
v<Version />. Or you can use `--branch main` to get the latest, unreleased
version.

### Download binary

The CI + CD job compiles binaries for each supported OS on every code push.
Additionally, we also cut periodic releases from the `main` branch of the
repository. You can download the binary for your operating system and
architecture by following these steps.

1. Download the binary file. You can either download the binary associated with
   a release or a commit.

   - **Release**

     1. Go to the GitHub [Releases](https://github.com/dhruvkb/pls/releases)
        page for <Pls />.
     2. Find the
        [latest release](https://github.com/dhruvkb/pls/releases/latest) i.e.
        v<Version />.
     3. Expand the "Assets" attached to the release.

   - **Commit**

     1. Visit the page for <Pls />'s
        [CI + CD workflow](https://github.com/dhruvkb/pls/actions/workflows/ci.yml).
     2. Click on the last successful workflow.
     3. Scroll down to the "Artifacts" section.

2. Download the binary as per your operating system.

   - `pls-x86_64-apple-darwin` for macOS
   - `pls-x86_64-unknown-linux-musl` for Linux

3. Unzip the archive and find the single `pls` executable.

4. Place the executable on your `$PATH`. To do this, you can either add the
   directory that contains it to the path, or move/symlink the binary to a
   directory that is already on your `$PATH`.

## Verification

You can check if <Pls /> was installed correctly and present on your `$PATH` by
running the following command. If you see a version number, you're good to go!

```console
$ pls --version # or -V
```

<pre className="terminal">
  pls <Version />
</pre>

## Usage

To run <Pls />, type the following command into any terminal.

```console
$ pls
```

By default, <Pls /> lists the contents of the current working directory, but you
can pass a different file or directory as a positional argument.

If a directory path is passed, all the files and directories within that
directory are listed. This is useful to see what's in the folder. If a file path
is passed, only the file itself is listed. On its own, that's not very useful
except to see if that file exists. But with the
[`--det`/`-d` flag](/pls/features/detail_view/), <Pls /> can display quite a lot
of metadata for the file.

## Help

To see what <Pls /> is capable of, and how to use those features, check out the
built-in help. You can see the detailed help or a quick reference using the
`--help`/`-h` flags respectively.

```console
$ pls --help # or -h
```

{/* prettier-ignore-start */}
<pre className="terminal">
<b><span style='color:var(--red,#a00)'>`pls`</span></b> is a prettier and powerful `ls` for the pros.
&nbsp;
<b><u>Usage:</u></b> <b>pls</b> [OPTIONS] [PATHS]...
...
</pre>
{/* prettier-ignore-end */}
