docs/src/content/docs/guides/specs.mdx, before:

---
title: Specs
descriptions:
  Specs are the backbone of pls, enabling it to match individual nodes to style
  rules. This makes pls more powerful than tools that match extensions or types.
---

import { Content as SpecsDef } from "@/examples/specs/def.mdx";
import { Content as SpecsConf } from "@/examples/specs/conf.mdx";
import { Content as SpecsConfd } from "@/examples/specs/confd.mdx";
import { Content as SpecsConfdSrc } from "@/examples/specs/confd_src.mdx";

At its core, the output of <Pls /> is a list of nodes. Each node in the list has
a specific color, style and importance, all of which collectively determine how
it is rendered and displayed.

<Pls /> uses specs to match each node to its visual properties, using a powerful
regex matching system, which allows nodes to be matched by their name, extension
or even fragments of both.

## Spec

A spec consists of four components, of which only the first is mandatory.

- **pattern:**
  [`regex::bytes::Regex`](https://docs.rs/regex/latest/regex/bytes/struct.Regex.html)

  This is a regex pattern that will be compared against the node name. If the
  node matches this regex, this spec will be associated with the node.

- **icon:** `String`

  This is the name, and not the actual glyph, of the [icon](/features/icons) to
  use for nodes matching this spec. When specs cascade, the last defined icon
  definition is used. If no specs match a node, the default icon for the node
  type is used.

- **style:** `String`

  This is a [markup](/guides/markup) directive that must be applied to the nodes
  that match this spec. When specs cascade, their directives are combined with
  latter rules overriding previous ones if they conflict.

- **importance:** `i8`

  This defines the [importance level](/features/importance/) of the file and
  overrides the default value (determined by the leading dot).

- **collapse:** [`Collapse`](#collapse)

### Collapse

The goal of collapsing is to indicate that a node is a derivative of another
adjacent node. Collapsing can be performed in two ways.

- **name**

  In this case, a node with a specific name is collapsed into another with a
  specific name. For example, `Cargo.lock` collapses into `Cargo.toml`.

- **ext**

  In this case, every node with a specific extension is collapsed into another
  node with the same stem but different extension. For example, `index.js` and
  `lib.js` collapse into `index.ts` and `lib.ts` respectively.

## Configuration

Specs are configured in the [`.pls.yml` file](/reference/conf/).

### Examples

Consider a typical JavaScript project. When listing it with <Pls /> the output
is very plain. That's because <Pls /> ships with a very lean config out of the
box.

```bash
pls
```

<SpecsDef />

But we can make some things better here.

- Use better icons for `package.json` and `pnpm-lock.yaml`.
- Make `pnpm-lock.yaml` collapse into `package.json`.
- Add icons for files related to Prettier.
- Add icons and color for TypeScript and JavaScript files.
- Make JavaScript files collapse into their corresponding TypeScript files.
- Emphasise `README.md` and `justfile` as they are starting files.

Let's add a spec file to it.

<SpecsConf />

<SpecsConfd />

```bash
pls src/
```

<SpecsConfdSrc />

Commit message:

Update `icon` in specs to `icons`

docs/src/content/docs/guides/specs.mdx, after:

---
title: Specs
descriptions:
  Specs are the backbone of pls, enabling it to match individual nodes to style
  rules. This makes pls more powerful than tools that match extensions or types.
---

import { Content as SpecsDef } from "@/examples/specs/def.mdx";
import { Content as SpecsConf } from "@/examples/specs/conf.mdx";
import { Content as SpecsConfd } from "@/examples/specs/confd.mdx";
import { Content as SpecsConfdSrc } from "@/examples/specs/confd_src.mdx";

At its core, the output of <Pls /> is a list of nodes. Each node in the list has
a specific color, style and importance, all of which collectively determine how
it is rendered and displayed.

<Pls /> uses specs to match each node to its visual properties, using a powerful
regex matching system, which allows nodes to be matched by their name, extension
or even fragments of both.

## Spec

A spec consists of four components, of which only the first is mandatory.

- **pattern:**
  [`regex::bytes::Regex`](https://docs.rs/regex/latest/regex/bytes/struct.Regex.html)

  This is a regex pattern that will be compared against the node name. If the
  node matches this regex, this spec will be associated with the node.

- **icons:** `String[]`

  This is a list of names, and not the actual glyphs, of the
  [icon](/features/icons) to use for nodes matching this spec. When specs
  cascade, the last defined icon definition is used. If no specs match a node,
  the default icon for the node type is used.

  One spec may define multiple icons. This is useful to specify an SVG icon with
  a Nerd Font fallback. When a terminal doesn't support SVGs, the SVG icons are
  skipped over and the Nerd Font fallback is rendered instead.

- **style:** `String`

  This is a [markup](/guides/markup) directive that must be applied to the nodes
  that match this spec. When specs cascade, their directives are combined with
  latter rules overriding previous ones if they conflict.

- **importance:** `i8`

  This defines the [importance level](/features/importance/) of the file and
  overrides the default value (determined by the leading dot).

- **collapse:** [`Collapse`](#collapse)

### Collapse

The goal of collapsing is to indicate that a node is a derivative of another
adjacent node. Collapsing can be performed in two ways.

- **name**

  In this case, a node with a specific name is collapsed into another with a
  specific name. For example, `Cargo.lock` collapses into `Cargo.toml`.

- **ext**

  In this case, every node with a specific extension is collapsed into another
  node with the same stem but different extension. For example, `index.js` and
  `lib.js` collapse into `index.ts` and `lib.ts` respectively.

## Configuration

Specs are configured in the [`.pls.yml` file](/reference/conf/).

### Examples

Consider a typical JavaScript project. When listing it with <Pls /> the output
is very plain. That's because <Pls /> ships with a very lean config out of the
box.

```bash
pls
```

<SpecsDef />

But we can make some things better here.

- Use better icons for `package.json` and `pnpm-lock.yaml`.
- Make `pnpm-lock.yaml` collapse into `package.json`.
- Add icons for files related to Prettier.
- Add icons and color for TypeScript and JavaScript files.
- Make JavaScript files collapse into their corresponding TypeScript files.
- Emphasise `README.md` and `justfile` as they are starting files.

Let's add a spec file to it.

<SpecsConf />

<SpecsConfd />

```bash
pls src/
```

<SpecsConfdSrc />
