docs/src/content/docs/about/comparison.mdx, before:

---
title: Comparison
description:
  There are many alternatives to ls(1) but pls is unique in its target
  demographic of pro users and its focus on customisation.
---

<Pls /> has the distinction of being an `ls(1)` replacement specifically
targeted a pro audience. This leads to different motivations, different
decisions, different choices and different defaults. This also gives us the
advantage of being able to provide features that are powerful but complex.

There are other `ls(1)` alternatives that have been around for longer and have
sizeable user bases.

| Tool                                                 | Language | GitHub stars                                  |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [exa](https://github.com/ogham/exa)                  | Rust     | <Stars owner="ogham" repo="exa" />            |
| [eza](https://github.com/eza-community/eza)          | Rust     | <Stars owner="eza-community" repo="eza" />    |
| [`lsd`](https://github.com/lsd-rs/lsd)               | Rust     | <Stars owner="lsd-rs" repo="lsd" />           |
| [`colorls`](https://github.com/athityakumar/colorls) | Ruby     | <Stars owner="athityakumar" repo="colorls" /> |

<Pls /> strives to provide all the features expected from these tools, and more.
For an idea, here is a comparison between <Pls /> and the most popular
alternatives, [eza](https://eza.rocks) and its predecessor
[exa](https://the.exa.website).

## Pros

- eza hides files with a leading dot by default, an approach it inherits from
  `ls(1)`. <Pls /> dims or hides files based on their
  [importance](/features/importance/), making it suitable for modern dev
  workflows involving tooling configs.

- eza uses arcane environment variables for customisation. <Pls /> uses
  [cascading YAML files](/reference/conf/) to enable per-project configuration
  that's also more readable, maintainable and ergonomic. You can also check
  these config files into your VCS and share them with your team.

- eza uses globs which limits the match to simple queries. <Pls /> uses
  [specs](/guides/specs/) which match files using the full power of regex and
  then provide both styling and [icons](/features/icons/) for their matches.
  These specs can also be cascaded.

- eza output is very colorful, but limited to customisation using ANSI escape
  codes. <Pls /> employs sparse color and formatting, to add meaning or context,
  and these [styles](/guides/markup/) can be customised using English names or
  even RGB notation.

- <Pls /> has more [metadata fields](/features/detail_view/) compared to eza. It
  also allows the user to view some metadata fields in multiple ways (including
  simultaneously), which eza cannot do.

- eza provides filtering by glob matches and sorting by one field. <Pls />
  provides filtering (by [regex](/features/name_filter/) or
  [type](/features/type_filter/)) and [sorting](/features/sorting) (by multiple
  selections out of over 18 bases &times; 2 directions).

- eza can dim a small list of generated files. <Pls /> has a much more powerful
  [collapse](/features/collapse/) feature that can render generated files
  differently and can be extended with specs.

- eza defaults to no icons, grid view, files mixed with folders and sorting by
  name. <Pls /> defaults to showing icons, list view, folders listed first and
  leading dots aligned and sorting by canonical name.

## Cons

- eza's interface is much more compatible with `ls(1)` in the base case. A lot
  of `ls(1)` options map 1:1 with eza. <Pls /> does not maintain compatibility
  with `ls(1)` CLI flags.

- eza is a mature product with a large contributor base. <Pls /> is a young
  project with a [novice 🦀 Rustacean maintainer](https://dhruvkb.dev/).
  Contributions, both in [code](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls) and as
  [sponsorship](https://github.com/sponsors/dhruvkb), are welcome!

- The spec system <Pls /> uses might be slow when listing lots of files due to
  its Cartesian product complexity. Also, <Pls /> lacks the speed optimisations
  that a mature tool like eza has built over time.

- eza can show if a file has extended attributes. <Pls /> opted not to do this
  because it's not a common use case.

- eza has a long grid view (which is a combination of <Pls />'s
  [detail](/features/detail_view/) and [grid](/features/grid_view/) views) that
  [are not yet present](/features/upcoming/) in <Pls />.

- eza has a tree mode that <Pls /> [does not yet have](/features/upcoming/).

- eza supports Windows which <Pls /> [does not yet do](/about/faq/).

Commit message:

Update the comparison docs to account for eza's new theme support (#112)
Co-authored-by: Dhruv Bhanushali <dhruv_b@live.com>

docs/src/content/docs/about/comparison.mdx, after:

---
title: Comparison
description:
  There are many alternatives to ls(1) but pls is unique in its target
  demographic of pro users and its focus on customisation.
---

<Pls /> has the distinction of being an `ls(1)` replacement specifically
targeted a pro audience. This leads to different motivations, different
decisions, different choices and different defaults. This also gives us the
advantage of being able to provide features that are powerful but complex.

There are other `ls(1)` alternatives that have been around for longer and have
sizeable user bases.

| Tool                                                 | Language | GitHub stars                                  |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| [exa](https://github.com/ogham/exa)                  | Rust     | <Stars owner="ogham" repo="exa" />            |
| [eza](https://github.com/eza-community/eza)          | Rust     | <Stars owner="eza-community" repo="eza" />    |
| [`lsd`](https://github.com/lsd-rs/lsd)               | Rust     | <Stars owner="lsd-rs" repo="lsd" />           |
| [`colorls`](https://github.com/athityakumar/colorls) | Ruby     | <Stars owner="athityakumar" repo="colorls" /> |

<Pls /> strives to provide all the features expected from these tools, and more.
For an idea, here is a comparison between <Pls /> and the most popular
alternatives, [eza](https://eza.rocks) and its predecessor
[exa](https://the.exa.website).

## Pros

- eza hides files with a leading dot by default, an approach it inherits from
  `ls(1)`. <Pls /> dims or hides files based on their
  [importance](/features/importance/), making it suitable for modern dev
  workflows involving tooling configs.

- eza supports theming using a global YAML file like <Pls />. But <Pls /> goes
  further with [cascading YAML files](/reference/conf/) to enable per-project
  configuration that's also more readable, maintainable and ergonomic. You can
  also check these config files into your VCS and share them with your team.

- eza uses globs which limits the match to simple queries. <Pls /> uses
  [specs](/guides/specs/) which match files using the full power of regex and
  then provide both styling and [icons](/features/icons/) for their matches.
  These specs can also be cascaded.

- eza's output is very colorful by default whereas <Pls /> employs sparse color
  and formatting, to add meaning or context. <Pls /> [markup](/guides/markup/)
  syntax is more compact than eza's separate fields for colors and styles.

- <Pls /> has more [metadata fields](/features/detail_view/) compared to eza. It
  also allows the user to view some metadata fields in multiple ways (including
  simultaneously), which eza cannot do.

- eza provides filtering by glob matches and sorting by one field. <Pls />
  provides filtering (by [regex](/features/name_filter/) or
  [type](/features/type_filter/)) and [sorting](/features/sorting) (by multiple
  selections out of over 18 bases &times; 2 directions).

- eza can dim a small list of generated files. <Pls /> has a much more powerful
  [collapse](/features/collapse/) feature that can render generated files
  differently and can be extended with specs.

- eza defaults to no icons, grid view, files mixed with folders and sorting by
  name. <Pls /> defaults to showing icons, list view, folders listed first and
  leading dots aligned and sorting by canonical name.

## Cons

- eza's interface is much more compatible with `ls(1)` in the base case. A lot
  of `ls(1)` options map 1:1 with eza. <Pls /> does not maintain compatibility
  with `ls(1)` CLI flags.

- eza is a mature product with a large contributor base. <Pls /> is a young
  project with a [novice 🦀 Rustacean maintainer](https://dhruvkb.dev/).
  Contributions, both in [code](https://github.com/pls-rs/pls) and as
  [sponsorship](https://github.com/sponsors/dhruvkb), are welcome!

- The spec system <Pls /> uses might be slow when listing lots of files due to
  its Cartesian product complexity. Also, <Pls /> lacks the speed optimisations
  that a mature tool like eza has built over time.

- eza can show if a file has extended attributes. <Pls /> opted not to do this
  because it's not a common use case.

- eza has a long grid view (which is a combination of <Pls />'s
  [detail](/features/detail_view/) and [grid](/features/grid_view/) views) that
  [are not yet present](/features/upcoming/) in <Pls />.

- eza has a tree mode that <Pls /> [does not yet have](/features/upcoming/).

- eza supports Windows which <Pls /> [does not yet do](/about/faq/).
