docs/src/content/docs/cookbooks/starters.mdx, before:

---
title: Starter configs
description:
  The USP of pls is that it uses plaintext YAML configurations that can be
  checked into VCS and shared with others. Here are some to get you started.
---

<Pls /> uses simple YAML-based [config files](/reference/conf/). This makes it
easy to

- check these configs into VCS to ensure your teammates can enjoy them
- back them up with the rest of your dotfiles
- share them with others to help them get started

This page consists of some configs to get you started. If you have a config that
you'd like to share with others, [please share](/guides/contribute/) with us.

## Common files

Since <Pls /> comes with a very minimal configuration out-of-the-box, you can
use this to set up <Pls /> for most common file types.

```yaml
icons:
  pdf: "" # nf-seti-pdf
  image: "" # nf-oct-image
  audio: "" # nf-seti-audio
  video: "" # nf-oct-video
  text: "" # nf-seti-text
  table: "󰓫" # nf-md-table
specs:
  - pattern: \.pdf$
    icon: pdf
  - pattern: \.(txt|rtf)$
    icon: text
  - pattern: \.(csv|tsv)$
    icon: table
  - pattern: \.(mp3|wav|aac)$
    icon: audio
  - pattern: \.(png|jpg|bmp|webp)$
    icon: image
  - pattern: \.(mp4|mov|avi|mkv|webm)$
    icon: video
```

## Rust

<Pls /> being a Rust project, comes with the configuration for Rust projects
baked-in.

## Python

If you build Python projects using Pipenv, Poetry or PDM, this config is for
you.

```yaml
icons:
  python: "" # nf-seti-python
specs:
  - pattern: \.py$
    icon: python
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: requirements.*\.txt$
    icon: lock
  - pattern: ^(pyproject\.toml|Pipfile)$
    icon: package
  - pattern: ^(poetry|pdm)\.lock$
    icon: lock
    importance: -1
    collapse:
      name: pyproject.toml
  - pattern: ^Pipfile.lock$
    icon: lock
    importance: -1
    collapse:
      name: Pipfile
```

## Web development

If you build web applications without any of the major JavaScript frameworks,
this config is for you.

```yaml
icons:
  html: "" # nf-seti-html
  css: "" # nf-seti-css
  sass: "" # nf-seti-sass
  less: "" # nf-seti-less
  markdown: "" # nf-fa-markdown
specs:
  - pattern: \.md$
    icon: markdown
  - pattern: \.x?html?$
    icon: html
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: \.s[ac]ss$
    icon: sass
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: \.less$
    icon: less
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: \.css$
    icon: css
    style: rgb(79,192,141)
    collapse:
      ext: scss
```

## JavaScript/TypeScript

If you build JavaScript/TypeScript projects, this config is for you. It supports
npm and pnpm as package managers, and Vue and React frameworks as well. If you
use JavaScript for frontend development, you should also inherit the web dev
config above.

```yaml
icons:
  javascript: "󰌞" # nf-md-language_javascript
  typescript: "󰛦" # nf-md-language_typescript
  vue: "" # nf-seti-vue
  react: "" # nf-seti-react
specs:
  - pattern: \.ts$
    icon: typescript
    style: rgb(49,120,198)
  - pattern: \.(c|m)?js$
    icon: javascript
    style: rgb(247,223,30)
    collapse:
      ext: ts
  - pattern: \.vue$
    icon: vue
    style: rgb(79,192,141)
  - pattern: \.(j|t)sx$
    icon: react
    style: rgb(97,218,251)
  - pattern: ^package-lock\.json$
    icon: package
  - pattern: ^(pnpm-lock.yaml|package-lock.json)$
    icon: lock
    importance: -1
    collapse:
      name: package.json
```

Commit message:

Include a config for Office files

docs/src/content/docs/cookbooks/starters.mdx, after:

---
title: Starter configs
description:
  The USP of pls is that it uses plaintext YAML configurations that can be
  checked into VCS and shared with others. Here are some to get you started.
---

<Pls /> uses simple YAML-based [config files](/reference/conf/). This makes it
easy to

- check these configs into VCS to ensure your teammates can enjoy them
- back them up with the rest of your dotfiles
- share them with others to help them get started

This page consists of some configs to get you started. If you have a config that
you'd like to share with others, [please share](/guides/contribute/) with us.

## Common files

Since <Pls /> comes with a very minimal configuration out-of-the-box, you can
use this to set up <Pls /> for most common file types.

```yaml
icons:
  pdf: "" # nf-seti-pdf
  image: "" # nf-oct-image
  audio: "" # nf-seti-audio
  video: "" # nf-oct-video
  text: "" # nf-seti-text
  table: "󰓫" # nf-md-table
specs:
  - pattern: \.pdf$
    icon: pdf
  - pattern: \.(txt|rtf)$
    icon: text
  - pattern: \.(csv|tsv)$
    icon: table
  - pattern: \.(mp3|wav|aac)$
    icon: audio
  - pattern: \.(png|jpg|bmp|webp)$
    icon: image
  - pattern: \.(mp4|mov|avi|mkv|webm)$
    icon: video
```

## Office

If you work with a lot of Microsoft Office apps, you can use this config to have
pretty and consistent icons for all your work files.

```yaml
icons:
  word: "󱎒" # nf-md-microsoft_word
  excel: "󱎏" # nf-md-microsoft_excel
  powerpoint: "󱎐" # nf-md-microsoft_powerpoint
specs:
  - pattern: \.docx?$
    icon: word
  - pattern: \.xlsx?$
    icon: excel
  - pattern: \.pptx?$
    icon: powerpoint
```

## Rust

<Pls /> being a Rust project, comes with the configuration for Rust projects
baked-in.

## Python

If you build Python projects using Pipenv, Poetry or PDM, this config is for
you.

```yaml
icons:
  python: "" # nf-seti-python
specs:
  - pattern: \.py$
    icon: python
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: requirements.*\.txt$
    icon: lock
  - pattern: ^(pyproject\.toml|Pipfile)$
    icon: package
  - pattern: ^(poetry|pdm)\.lock$
    icon: lock
    importance: -1
    collapse:
      name: pyproject.toml
  - pattern: ^Pipfile.lock$
    icon: lock
    importance: -1
    collapse:
      name: Pipfile
```

## Web development

If you build web applications without any of the major JavaScript frameworks,
this config is for you.

```yaml
icons:
  html: "" # nf-seti-html
  css: "" # nf-seti-css
  sass: "" # nf-seti-sass
  less: "" # nf-seti-less
  markdown: "" # nf-fa-markdown
specs:
  - pattern: \.md$
    icon: markdown
  - pattern: \.x?html?$
    icon: html
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: \.s[ac]ss$
    icon: sass
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: \.less$
    icon: less
    style: rgb(255,212,59)
  - pattern: \.css$
    icon: css
    style: rgb(79,192,141)
    collapse:
      ext: scss
```

## JavaScript/TypeScript

If you build JavaScript/TypeScript projects, this config is for you. It supports
npm and pnpm as package managers, and Vue and React frameworks as well. If you
use JavaScript for frontend development, you should also inherit the web dev
config above.

```yaml
icons:
  javascript: "󰌞" # nf-md-language_javascript
  typescript: "󰛦" # nf-md-language_typescript
  vue: "" # nf-seti-vue
  react: "" # nf-seti-react
specs:
  - pattern: \.ts$
    icon: typescript
    style: rgb(49,120,198)
  - pattern: \.(c|m)?js$
    icon: javascript
    style: rgb(247,223,30)
    collapse:
      ext: ts
  - pattern: \.vue$
    icon: vue
    style: rgb(79,192,141)
  - pattern: \.(j|t)sx$
    icon: react
    style: rgb(97,218,251)
  - pattern: ^package-lock\.json$
    icon: package
  - pattern: ^(pnpm-lock.yaml|package-lock.json)$
    icon: lock
    importance: -1
    collapse:
      name: package.json
```
